♪Only after bloom comes fruit♪
♪Who says glory must fade to the past♪
♪Only through thunder
do you reach the clouds♪
♪Who made you the crown of every peak♪
♪I stand at the center of the stage♪
♪My shadow is pinned against the wall♪
♪Facing the light earns every medal♪
♪Little birds,
save your needless pecking♪
♪The open sky rises high♪
♪When night falls,
the moon begins to shine♪
♪I stand in the heart of these lands♪
♪My shadow bears no crown or robe♪
♪Then I know truth needs no disguise♪
♪The green hills see me as I am♪
♪Like dew, lightning,
and moon on the river♪
♪Showing me exactly who I am♪
=The Lead=
=Episode 30=
Careful, Master Gu.
I'm fine. Doing great.
Alright, you two get some rest.
Come on, let me help you.
Let's head back.
What is it?
I don't want to go back.
I want to walk a bit.
- I want to walk.
- We should go back.
Let me walk a bit.
Come on, let's go rest.
You're drunk.
Just a few steps.
I don't want to go back.
This old man...
Has a home but won't go back.
What are you up to?
I feel great.
Today is just great.
Great drinks, and a great chat too.
Been rehearsing Qinqiang opera lately.
But we haven't really talked about it.
Talking about it today...
felt really good.
Then hurry back and get some rest.
- Come on.
- I'm telling you...
Now,
once Qin'e takes the stage in Chang'an
and becomes a massive hit,
I'll be out of here.
Where will you go?
Who cares where?
As long as I can
release all this pent-up acting energy.
Or the King of Hell will take it away.
Master Gu, don't say that.
You know how it is in the movies.
When someone says, "After this battle,
I'll go home and get
married," or whatever.
Chances are, he won't survive.
I don't fear death.
I just fear living a half-life.
You won't die.
I'll be right there with you.
We'll roam, perform, and stay together.
For now, go get some sleep.
Let me walk you home.
No need.
Just leave now.
Let me get some peace and quiet.
Be alone for a bit?
It's perfect.
Don't stay out too long.
Mind the cold outside.
I'm off then.
I'll leave you be.
Leave me be.
Go.
Aunt Hua, leave it there, I'll do it.
It's fine, think I'm really drunk?
Let me do it.
I'm just happy.
These clothes look great.
Why don't you wear them?
They're not mine. Someone gave them to me.
They're too expensive to throw away.
I'll return them when I get the chance.
You have a boyfriend?
He's not my boyfriend.
I don't like him.
Have someone you like?
No.
I get it.
Can't be with the one you like.
The one who likes you...
You don't like him back.
Isn't that just life?
Just like singing opera.
No matter how high the pitch starts,
it's just the beginning.
There's still a long way to go.
I...
I finally found you.
You...
Can't sleep?
What did your uncle say when he left?
Did he say
that I should teach you how to sing?
He said not to mention
Qinqiang opera to you.
He said you've been away for so long,
and it takes courage to pick it up again.
He didn't want to upset you.
Aunt Hua,
since I joined the provincial troupe,
I haven't had a single day of peace.
The provincial troupe's
diction is different.
Everyone is anxious.
I practice hard,
but I can't see the way forward.
Uncle tells me to focus on singing
and not think too much.
But the more he says,
the more confused I get.
I rarely find peace of mind anymore.
Your uncle is right.
What they say or think
doesn't matter.
What matters is you.
But I have no idea.
I feel most at ease
when breathing the fire.
Because I promised my master
to surpass Wei Changsheng,
and keep singing Qinqiang opera.
It's grey.
If he hadn't bumped into her that day,
who knows how long Hua Caixiang
would have stayed in hiding.
She told Qin'e
she feels the way she is right now
isn't a good role model.
Time really changes a person completely.
Laidi.
Wake up.
It's a great time for us.
We can't miss it.
Come with me.
Where to?
Remember when you were little
and I took you to the valley
to practice?
I remember.
That's our lucky place.
Let's warm up your voice first.
Hu Sanyuan.
Scumbag.
Bag... Bag...
Scumbag!
Can't you stop smoking?
It's choking me.
What else should I do?
Hope you choke!
I'll keep smoking.
I wish I were dead anyway.
If I die,
let's see what you'll eat.
Don't worry.
I'll starve if you die.
Other guys are fixing up their houses
or tinkering with something.
You can't even fix a broken board.
Yet all day long,
you act all tough
for nothing!
Leave if you don't like it.
Now? Why didn't you
say so earlier?
You got someone new,
so I'm in the way now?
What are you doing?
To make room?
Looking for someone. What?
Who are you looking for?
- Look at you.
- Does Pi Liang live here?
Pi Liang?
- I won't leave!
- Don't know him.
I'll just annoy you.
What kind of life is this?
You think I'm having a good life?
Why didn't you say that earlier?
Master.
I bought breakfast.
What are you eating?
Your master hasn't eaten yet.
They threw money in a drum bag?
They really took us for buskers.
Nine, ten.
Two yuan and forty-eight fen!
Thirty days in a month.
We could make two yuan a day.
That's sixty yuan a month!
That's not bad.
Don't beat people's backs.
Just beat the drum for a living.
One tree doesn't make a forest.
My drumming is only worth fifty fen.
The rest is for you and Qin'e's singing.
Now we don't need to.
Maybe we can make a living off it later.
When is later?
It's up to you.
Just give the word.
I'll pedal my trike and take you anywhere.
(Ye Ma Ma)
They say this movie is really good.
Wanna watch it?
No.
A ticket is one yuan and twenty fen.
The money in that bag is just enough.
Maybe it's meant to be.
Watch it.
The last time we saw a movie together
was back in the opera troupe.
We were rehearsing Hong Hu Chi Wei Dui.
They played an outdoor movie, remember?
It feels like it was just yesterday.
I kept asking you
what was in that letter,
but you just wouldn't tell me.
I was so mad.
Tell me, back then,
if that letter hadn't gotten soaked,
would things between us
have been different?
Just watch the movie.
We paid for the tickets.
♪Tell Huiniang not to be so sad♪
♪Listen and take my words to heart♪
What's wrong?
♪Goddess of the Ninth Heavens pities you♪
Wanna know what I wrote
in that letter, right?
I'll tell you.
I just wrote three words.
"Take me in."
They cut ties with me.
But I wrote it thirty times.
What did you say?
Look, Tubagou is coming down!
Tubagou is coming down!
Everyone, look closely!
Gu Cunxiao, director of
the provincial troupe,
was a total thug in the old society!
My mom is his lawful wife.
Yet he took an opera
performer as his mistress.
(Old thug Gu Cunxiao)
Then came Liberation.
(Give my mother dignity)
He feared the People's Government.
So he ran off with that mistress.
He abandoned my mom.
Now Reform is here.
He wants to take my mom away.
He treats her like his private property
and his servant
who works herself to the bone!
Young man,
she's still your mother.
How can you say that?
I don't care.
The provincial troupe
must give me an explanation today.
How can the provincial troupe explain it?
If you have an issue,
go to the police station.
Right?
You can't act like this here.
You're personally attacking him.
- That's illegal!
- Exactly.
What attack? Stop your nonsense!
He's one of your guys.
Of course, you'd cover for him.
I don't care.
You have to give my mom back today!
Oh, and you need to pay me.
For my emotional distress!
Pay you? Not a chance!
Can you take this banner down first?
What money?
Master Gu abandoned his family?
He dumped his wife and kid?
Master Chen.
Master Chen, who are you calling?
Calling the police.
Why call the police? Hang up!
Hang up now!
Think things aren't bad enough?
Calling the police?
We need to learn to protect our own.
I said I'd call the police.
That was just to scare him.
Let's see how long he keeps it up.
I demand an explanation!
An explanation!
He's causing trouble!
Stop banging on the door!
You break it, you pay for it!
Stop making a scene!
Buddy, buddy, buddy!
Don't act up at the
provincial troupe's door.
You're blocking the whole entrance.
This is illegal, you know?
Who are you?
What?
I've heard your story.
Your mom didn't divorce Gu Cunxiao.
How did your dad have you?
I was just saying.
He abandoned my mom.
My dad felt sorry for her.
So he took her in.
That's how I was born.
So your mom didn't divorce Gu Cunxiao.
Then your mom and dad are
living together unlawfully.
Right, right.
Exactly.
That is unlawful, you know?
They could go to jail for it!
Your very birth is unlawful!
So, what's going on?
Who did you say?
I'll hit you!
I didn't hit him!
I didn't touch him!
I didn't!
Stop him! Don't let him get away!
- Call the police, quick!
- Call the police!
This is illegal! He hit people!
Stop him! Stop him!
- Liu Hongbing!
- Don't let him escape!
He ran off.
He ran off!
Are you okay?
I already called the police!
How was my acting?
Could I be an actor?
Young man.
Thank you.
No big deal.
What's your name?
I'm Liu Hongbing.
Thank you.
Where are you from?
- Liu Hongbing!
- Yi Qin'e...
I'm her boyfriend.
Qin'e! Qin'e! Qin'e!
Then you're one of us!
One of us!
Come in, come in!
Qin'e!
Come on in!
Come in!
Comrade Gu Cunxiao,
what is going on here?
About our policy,
you should know it well, right?
I do know it.
Confess for leniency, resist for severity.
No,
it's about monogamy!
How could a mistake from Pre-Liberation
be repeated Post-Liberation?
I'm more wronged than Dou E.
I didn't take her back.
She found her way back on her own.
Our show became a hit in Beishan.
She came back on her own.
You already said that.
What about her?
Where did she come from?
Calm down.
Take your time.
Let's talk outside.
Chief Qiao, come here.
The older one is Zhang Su'e.
Someone told her I was here.
She found me a few days ago.
We never officially divorced.
I had no choice back then.
I hustled every day to make ends meet.
Life was stifling and miserable.
I was constantly picked on.
My situation was even worse.
She suffered a lot with me.
She ran into a local boss who
took a fancy to her.
If she hadn't given in,
I'd probably be dead.
That man is dead now.
His son is even worse.
He treats her like a pack animal,
always beating and cursing her.
She couldn't take it anymore.
So she ran away
and found me.
She was a salt merchant's daughter.
She saw my play
and eloped with me.
We were a couple after all.
She's in such a state,
and she finds me.
Sent her away?
I can't
do that to her.
She stays,
and here you are.
Even a hero cannot overcome
the trial of a beauty.
Chief Qiao,
Gu didn't do it on purpose.
This isn't illegal, right?
Here's the thing.
From a legal perspective,
it's not illegal yet.
- Good.
- But look.
Good.
This living arrangement of you three,
if it continues like this,
you'll be committing bigamy.
Separate immediately.
Not just immediately,
you must separate completely.
Completely.
Moving to a new place
won't solve the problem.
One of them has to leave.
Relax, it'll be fine.
No big deal.
Who would've thought?
Gu is quite something.
He has two wives.
At his age,
he has no shame at all.
What are you saying?
We're all men. Stop pretending.
Who are you?
Family.
And you?
The troupe's sound engineer.
Got a problem?
Just keep quiet.
I just despise unfaithful men.
Though he is your master,
regarding this matter,
I still look down on him.
Unlike me,
in this lifetime,
having just you is enough.
If, after a week,
we still get public complaints,
we won't go easy on you.
Turn back before it's too late.
Stubbornness leads to endless pain.
- Gu.
- Let's go.
Resolve it quickly.
Chief Qiao, you're well-informed.
You found out after just one week.
So what?
It proves the public is sharp.
Right, right.
Which citizen was it?
Tell me so I can praise him or her.
Your group has to sort out
Comrade Gu Cunxiao's issue quickly.
Okay.
- That's it, I'm off.
- Okay, okay.
Qin'e. Qin'e.
Check on Gu.
Let me know if anything happens.
Troupe Leader Shan, I've got this.
- Okay, go ahead.
- The police...
Go ahead.
Look at all the men in this troupe.
You're less capable
than one family member.
Break it up. Go.
Liu Jinsong.
You play dumb when work is assigned,
but you're first in line for drama.
Dear Troupe Leader.
You completely wronged me.
I was rehearsing perfectly fine.
Then Pi Liang yelled
and called us all over here.
It's true, right?
Liu Jinsong, don't talk nonsense.
What do you mean you heard me yell?
I heard someone else yelling too.
I only heard you yell.
Say that again, and I'll
rip your mouth off.
Bring it on.
Why are you looking at me?
Because you're pretty.
Who else would I look at?
About fighting for the lead role,
I think it's completely normal.
But you need to do it the right way.
You can't use such dirty tricks.
Alright, that's enough. Break it up.
Master.
Go call your master in.
Don't stand out there.
The issue needs to be resolved.
- Why are you staring?
- We need an answer.
Go, go.
Just go!
I'd better go back.
I don't want to burden your master.
That home...
I couldn't stay there for another minute.
Ma'am...
if I had any other choice,
I wouldn't have come here.
Right, right!
I'm the one who should leave.
I was cast aside.
I'll go back to the country and starve.
Ma'am, what are you saying?
What am I saying?
The honest truth.
At least she has a son.
Good or bad, she's still alive.
Master, why squatting here?
What do I have?
I'd just starve.
Why are you here?
What's in your hand?
Food for Master.
What are you waiting for?
They need to eat.
Hurry up and serve it.
Quick, quick!
Oh my heavens!
Look at the time!
You're not watching the show?
You don't care at all?
It started?
What time is it? When did it start?
Ma'am.
What's the big deal?
Ma'am, have some food.
Here.
They were fine yesterday.
Why are they arguing today?
How can they be together?
She always picks fights with him,
doing nothing else.
Just sitting on the bed smoking.
Look, even the actress quit smoking.
Why are you still smoking?
Right?
Go that way.
Shun! Shun!
Come here.
Director, what is it?
What's with this lighting?
It's way too bright.
Does this look like West Lake?
But...
You said they need to see the acting.
The atmosphere doesn't matter.
Are you the director, or am I?
You're the director.
What do we do then?
I want a West Lake vibe.
That's your duty.
You're asking me?
Alright, I'll tweak it.
I'll tweak it.
Come on, make it a bit darker.
Bringing West Lake's beauty to the stage?
Director Feng.
We'll add some lights later.
And put on some music.
Perfect.
It's getting late.
Any advice for me, Director Gu?
You're right.
Only tables, chairs, and curtains.
It really is outdated.
Take your time enjoying it.
I'm heading home for dinner.
I'm leaving.
Where are you going?
I'm leaving here.
Where I used to go
is where I'm going now.
Then
what about your two wives?
I will
give them all my savings.
The Troupe Leader agreed
to let them stay in that house.
Once I'm gone,
they'll stop fighting.
But...
Don't worry.
People can survive without each other.
My only worry right now
is you.
I brought you here from Ningzhou.
But I made you suffer here.
This injustice...
I've also kept it to myself.
But...
after everything recently,
especially after that
stand double incident,
I realized
you're stronger than I thought.
Even stronger than me.
Master Gu,
please don't comfort me.
I'm not. It's the truth.
You're very grounded.
Because your mind is clear.
You don't try to control life.
That's why you can survive in the cracks
of life.
Kid, remember this.
Always stay like this.
Don't change.
I don't understand.
What does singing opera mean to you?
I never thought about it.
Exactly.
It's like many things in life.
The more you think,
the less it makes sense.
Just remember,
life is long,
and it's not just about opera.
If you can still sing, do it well.
If you can't sing anymore,
just live your life well.
I'll remember it.
♪Just do good deeds♪
♪And don't ask♪
♪About the future♪
Gu Cunxiao's family matter
is a mess left by history.
He left the troupe
not to hide from his past affairs.
His vision for Qinqiang opera clashed
with Director Feng's.
But learning a bit from Director Feng
helped him realize what he wants to sing.
He needs to hurry up and sing.
He said he needed the bathroom.
But once he left,
he never came back.
Break it up! It's early, get to work.
Gu really left?
He didn't take any valuables with him.
Alright.
With him gone,
the problem is pretty much solved.
Nothing left to investigate.
You two ladies go back inside and rest.
Sir, sir!
You can't just leave.
How are we two old women supposed to live?
You officials can't just ignore us.
Well...
Just keep living in this house for now.
If you run into trouble,
tell the neighborhood committee.
We'll work it out together.
If there are still issues,
Chief Qiao,
please help sort them out.
Right.
Go in and rest.
Come on.
Go back inside.
I'll reheat the food.
He left just like that?
What's wrong?
You even got attached?
Now that he's gone, you're off?
It's just a difference in views.
I have nothing against him.
I know that.
Don't overthink it now.
Just focus on rehearsal.
Right, I'll just focus on rehearsal.
Consider it fulfilling his wish.
I'll leave it to you.
Do a good job.
Okay, spotlight.
Fade out.
Lili, off.
Qin'e, on.
Okay.
Okay, lights up.
Stand steady.
Okay.
Well,
about your current singing style...
You need a bit more emotion.
You're playing Li Huiniang. Your singing
doesn't really fit...
You're keeping your cool pretty well.
What's wrong?
Did you know Master Gu was leaving?
Why didn't you tell me?
Master wouldn't let me.
He said no, so you kept it from me?
I didn't do what you
told me not to do either.
I can understand him.
If I ever have to leave one day,
I would do the same thing.
You're leaving?
Where are you going?
Now that he's left,
no one in the troupe will speak for you.
The whole morning,
Director Feng didn't even look at you.
Just do good deeds and
don't ask about the future.
That's what Master said.
Stop following me.
I'm going to the restroom.
What a total dummy!
You dare play
against me?
I'm undefeated in the
entire Qinqiang opera circle.
Let's test that out then.
I'm the best player among the families.
Beat me before you claim that.
- Come on.
- Go easy on me.
What are you doing here?
Uncle.
I'm watching Qin'e rehearse.
No need.
Just leave.
We're playing the game.
I'll play with you later.
Stop wandering in and out
and talking big.
You'll distract Qin'e.
Get going.
Troupe Leader Shan, going out?
- Liu?
- Yes.
Why are you here?
To see Qin'e?
Come sit in my office for a bit.
No, no, Troupe Leader.
I'm keeping an eye on the gate.
With me here, the
provincial troupe is safe!
Rest assured!
You're pretty funny.
Right.
This is Hu Sanyuan,
Yi Qin'e's uncle.
Real uncle.
Hello, Troupe Leader.
Thank you.
Thank you for training Qin'e
into a Qinqiang opera talent.
You flatter me.
But now that Gu is gone,
the kid must be
feeling really upset inside.
As her family,
help us talk some sense into her.
Don't worry.
It's our duty as family members.
Leave it to us. No problem.
Alright.
I'll leave it to the family members.
I have a meeting.
I'll leave.
Okay, okay.
Come visit when you're free.
Take care, sir.
Alright, alright.
How come
he even greeted you?
Uncle, about Master Gu last time.
A tiny matter.
I just helped out.
Listen,
don't meddle in the opera community.
Don't cause trouble.
How is this causing trouble?
Uncle! Uncle!
Let's go get some liangpi.
- Diaojia Village has a new stall!
- Let go!
Let's go!
Two bowls of liangpi, miss.
Coming right up.
Have a seat, Uncle.
Authentic Ningzhou flavor!
The liangpi is amazing!
And the owner is even prettier.
What are you playing at?
Playing at what?
Idiot.
Gu really left.
It's my fault.
Why did I say that to him?
If you ask me, it's not your business.
By the time you got out of prison,
Laidi was already famous.
You did nothing.
I wasn't around back then,
but there were four seniors around.
The seniors left,
and we'll have new ones.
Is it harder to go from
a nobody to the lead,
or is it harder now?
What's meant to be yours will come,
and if not, worrying won't help.
True enough.
Alright, stop nagging.
Or spend another 200 yuan
to buy a pig and treat everyone.
Earlier, you drove Gu away
with your nonsense,
and now you come here looking all gloomy.
What for?
Jinxing my business?
Go and eat.
Uncle.
If you ask me,
she's right.
You don't need to worry.
Besides, I'm here now.
Don't worry about Qin'e's business.
Pay more attention to your own.
Save it.
You haven't seen anything yet.
If you ask me, men shouldn't be too proud.
There's a saying.
"Persistence wins the girl."
A thick skin makes you invincible.
If you want a wife,
don't be too proud.
If you like her,
be proactive.
Proactive?
Or shameless like you?
First, we must
put in the time, endure the loneliness,
take the knocks,
and drop the pride.
However they react,
we at least check in morning and night.
If they slap your left cheek,
smile and offer the right one.
Let them keep going.
Can you do that?
Uncle,
you don't understand love.
When you truly fall for someone,
you'll get it.
Look at your disgusting face.
Hurry up and eat, then get lost.
Sis.
So you are Aunt Hua!
Qin'e talks about you
all day long.
Liu Hongbing.
Careful, it's greasy!
Listen,
Uncle Sanyuan, my uncle.
I'll leave him to you from now on.
Thanks for the trouble.
Qin'e's business is my business, right?
Just tell me if you need anything.
We can work it out.
Bye, Aunt Hua.
Is the kid doing okay?
He's sick.
Don't worry.
She'll definitely pull through.
When it comes
to this, women are much stronger than men.
I saw her Troupe Leader.
I know him.
We performed together before.
I played drums for him.
But he didn't recognize me.
So I said nothing.
Why didn't you?
If I did,
it'd look like social climbing.
Better save it for a crucial moment.
Use it when it really counts.
(Diaojia Village)
Uncle.
Here.
What?
Just take it when I tell you to.
Take it.
What's this for?
(Diaojia Village)
Here.
Where did you get it?
The whole village grows flowers.
You pick them when it's time.
See you.
Little brat.
You can't just pick them!
Who picked my flower?
Here.
How is it?
Good, right?
Perfect.
=The Lead=
(Preview)
On behalf of Qin'e,
I brought you a small token of appreciation.
He's an artist. Too lofty and principled.
You know why Gong Lili
has never been replaced?
Because she and Director Feng
both studied under Ms. Li,
the Qinqiang opera maestro.
Ms. Li, please give us your thoughts.
Bring that girl who
performed the fire breathing and Woyu
up here.
♪When I woke up and turned back♪
♪I wasn't sure where to go♪
♪We met and brushed past♪
♪Your shadow drifted out of sight♪
♪The stove fire blazed in my dream♪
♪Lit up the tracks of pearly tears♪
♪In my dream, water sleeves flew♪
♪Hiding a lifetime of love♪
♪The Qinling Mountains
crossed the stage♪
♪Spring water brewed strong wine♪
♪Sheep moved through the valley♪
♪It felt like a promise
from another life♪
♪When I woke up and turned back♪
♪I wasn't sure where to go♪
♪If I chose again, I'd still roam♪
♪All over this sunlit plateau♪
♪The dream ends; the curtain falls♪
♪Moonlight washes off this stage makeup♪
♪The one in the mirror wears gray hair♪
♪Already sang all my joy and sorrow♪
♪Already shouted across Qinchuan Plain♪